# Project-5-L32-1

## Compilation Instructions

In order to compile the program one must compile all the classes within the src folder and run the Main.java file. To run the test cases for the project one must compile all the classes within the test folder and run the TestRunner.java file. To run the junit test cases you must have the releveant dependencies installed.

## Submitters

### Report - submitted report on brightspace

### Project 5 - Submitted through Vocareum


## Class Descriptions

### Storage.java
  Storage.java is the means of persistent storage for our project and stores the ArrayLists of objects that hold our product, store, and user information. Within the class are functions to read and write to the individual .ser files which these ArrayLists are stored and they are used within the Main.java class at the beginning and end of the programs to store the information. The storage class relates directly to the main class as the primary means of data storage is through utilizing the storage class. The testing for this class is done within the StorageTesting class and they primarily test invalid inputs within the storage method. 
  
### User.java
  User.java is the means of creating new instances of the User class, holding its information, and defining the variables associated with it. This class implements the Serializable interface. The variables associated with this class include the users name, their password, and their salt. The User class is used when creating a new account, and is used as the basis for both the Customer and Seller classes. The User class also holds important methods for the generation and authentication of User Objects. Through methods in the uesr class the basis for the beginning of the login flow are found. Within the class are also useful methods for autheticating in case users want to change their email, as the User Class provides methods to ensure email's are valid and unique. User Class test cases are found in the corresponding file within the Test's folder. The user tests cases ensure the functionality of the helper methods within User and test for invalid input within the methods.
  
### Store.java
  Store.java is the means of creating new instances of the Store class, holding its information, and defining the variables associated with it. It implements the serializable interface. The variables associated with this class include the stores name, its products, the Seller associated with it, its sales, and its amount of sold products. Store has to ability create stores, make and remove products, edit those products, and increment its own sales. The sales class relates directly to the products class as products are created within each individual store and the store class has methods to authenticate store names and generate lists of the stores. The interaction with the store class differs between customer and seller as customers interact and search through stores while sellers populate stores with products and create different stores to sell from. The testing for the store class is within the market test and shared tests, and both classes ensure the ability of store's functions to take invalid input and ensures the functionality of the functions. 

### Product.java
  Product.java is the means of holding information about a product that is being sold in a store. It implements the Serializable interface. The variables associated with this class include the store associated with the product, the products name, the products description, the number of the product in stock, the amount of products sold, and the price of the product. The Product class is used with the Store class, when making new products to be sold in the given store. Products are the primary way customers will be interacting with the marketplace as they are either adding the products to their cart of purchasing the products directly. The product class provides functions to generate the listing for the products in addition to the description pages relating to each produce when the users select them. The product class also provides a means of validating whether a particular produce exists in addition to searching the available listings. The class also provides methods to sort an array of products based either upon the prices of the products or the available stocks of the produce. Each of these sorted options can then also be reversed. The testing for the product class is within the corresponding product class and the market test classes and the tests primarily ensure the functionality of thee functinos in addition to testing the invalid input handling of the funcitons. 

### Customer.java
  Customer.java is the means of creating new instances of the Customer class, holding its information, and defining the variables associated with it. It is an extends the User class. The variables associated with this class include the Customers cart, transaction history, the products associated with those transactions, and the number of products they have bought, as well as all of those already associated with the User class. A new instance of the Customer class is made when a user signs up and chooses to be a customer, instead of a seller. Customers are able to search for stores to purchase products from, as well as search for specific sellers. The customer class relates to both the product and store classes as customers through the application interact with the marketplace built from the product and store functions. The customer class has purchase methods which allows it to either purchase from a product page directly or add items to cart to purchase in bulk later. This allows for a greater purchasing experience as shopping becomes more akin to that of in person. The customer class also allows the customer to view that past transactions and export them in case they need them for other purposes. The Customer class has test cases with the Customer class in addition to test cases with the market class. These test cases test the funcitonality of the methods in addition to testing invalid inputs. 


### Seller.java
  Seller.java is the means of creating new instances of the Seller class, holding its information, and defining the variables associated with it. It is an extends the User class. The variables associated with this class include all of the stores the seller has made, as well as all of those already associated with the user class. A new instance of the Seller class is made when a user signs up and chooses to be a seller, instead of a Customer. Sellers are able to make new stores, as remove them and see the stores already created. The sellers interact with the stores and product classes by being able to create and edit stores in addition to being able to edit, add, and remove products from individual stores. Sellers are able to import products or export products relating to a particular store in the csv format and they can also view the statisics related to their stores being able to sort by revenue brought in by stores or quantity of products sold from products. They also have the ability to sort in the opposite direction inverting both sorted lists. Sellers can also look at specific users shopping carts this will help them better determine which products to sell. The seller related tests are stored within the market, shopping cart, files, and statistics tests. 

### ClientThread.java
  This class is dealing with server communication and concurrency. Using ObjectInputStream and ObjectOutputStream methods, user flow is transferred to server using either booleans or updated variables like ArrayList of products, users, and stores. To avoid overwritten changes to each other, we implemented the keyword "synchronized" with a parameter of either userSync, storeSync or productSync, wherever and whichever is applicable. Thus, any change that is made into an ArrayList, can happen synchronized, avoiding overwrite.  

### ClientGui.java
  This class, as understood from the name, creates a GUI for the user flow. Both JOptionPane and complex GUI like JFrame, JButton, etc. are used in this purpose. Choosing actions and seeing options are through compelx GUI. Errors and other messages like successfully created ... are done with JOptionPane. This class also uses ObjectOutputStream and ObjectInputStream to transfer what is chosen by the user in GUI to the server side as it is needed for the user flow. 

### Server.java
  Server class opens up a ServerSocket with port 9000 and keeps it open in a while(true) loop. In case it shutdowns in an exception, it also has the capability to store latest data. 

### Test Files
  Some classes have their own individual test classes, but the primary test cases for the requirements within this project are found within the shared requirements, market, files, statistics, and shoppping cart test files. Each group of requirements has its own individual testing file and they test for method functinality in additon to testing invalid inputs looking for exceptions. To fun all the tests run the TestRunner file and to test some of the exception handling in main run test within the MainTest class.
